six days after the September 11th
terrorist attacks it was President Bush
who went to the Islamic center of
Washington DC and proclaimed that Islam
is a religion of peace at the time the
remark was barely a cause for
controversy instead it was greeted by
most as a call to civility a note of
sanity a warning to fanatics who might
consider taking revenge on some innocent
Muslim women shopping for groceries in a
headscarf
but now nine years later President Bush
is widely accused in retrospect of
having succumbed to a momentary case of
political correctness many people now
believe that his Islam is peace remark
was born either of ignorance or of
expediency it did not even take another
successful act of terrorism to set off
the season we just lived through the
endless summer of holy war the
instigation was a proposal to build the
mosque at Ground Zero or if you prefer
the mosque of the old Burlington Coat
Factory in the financial district what
ensued was nothing less than a
referendum on Islam my work means that I
travel around the United States asking
total strangers a lot of nosy questions
about religion I found that this
question is Islam a religion of peace
more than any other is now the one on
people's minds but let's acknowledge
that too many the question before us
tonight is either absurd or offensive to
one camp the question is absurd because
the answer is patently obvious just look
at the headlines they say if 9/11 is not
convincing enough what about the suicide
bombers in Iraq Afghanistan Israel Spain
Pakistan for God's sake even a tourist
retreat like Bali they say what about
Major Nidal Hasan a psychiatrist in the
US Army who shot his own colleagues at
point-blank after he spent years
studying and reflecting on his mother
faith was he under the influence of
psychosis or of Islam they ask why do
honor killings seem to be a Muslim
phenomenon how could a religion of peace
permit a father to order the death of
his own daughter this camp says not only
is his LOM not a religion of peace it is
intrinsically a religion of violence the
question is absurd the case is closed
yet there are others who consider the
Islam and peace question not so much
absurdly obvious as utterly offensive
this camp asks how can you condemn an
entire faith a religion followed by
nearly 2 billion people because of the
atrocities committed by its fringe
extremists they ask why blame the faith
when the terrorists are clearly driven
more by political ideology than by
theology they ask why do we not apply
the same judgment reserved for Islam to
other religions widen the ethnic
cleansing of bosnia-herzegovina
prompt widespread rumination on whether
Serbian Orthodox Christianity is a
religion of peace when Roman Catholic
priests and bishops were complicit in
the genocide in Rwanda the world did not
blame Roman Catholicism but the blame
fell
God is not great but for most the except
for your wide readership that the blame
fell on a few rogue clerics why do we
make such fine distinctions when it
comes to religions other religions but
not with Islam this camp asks isn't the
Old Testament laced with calls to
violence as explicit as those in the
Quran why do we explain away the warlike
verses in Deuteronomy and Leviticus as a
product of their time and culture when
we do not excuse the sword verses in the
Quran whether you think the question
before us tonight is absurd or offensive
no matter which camp you're in or
neither or whether you think it's
appropriate I'm hoping that what we
accomplish tonight is to cause every one
of you at least one disconcerning moment
in which the preconception you arrived
with is shattered
so our format tonight will allow mr.
Hitchens and mr. Ramadan each 10-minute
opening statements followed by a brief
rebuttal and we'll have a longer period
for discussion and then open it up for
questions I hope you'll have some good
ones I have no tolerance for any
interruptions though I don't expect that
but if we do we have ways to handle them
and also a reminder to turn off your
cellphone's so we're not serenaded
unnecessarily so we agreed very
continually before we began that mr.
Hitchens would begin hmm thank you
Salam alaikum Shalom
welcome back to United States Thank You
Laurie for your introduction thank you
very much ladies and gentlemen for
coming I have to be brief so I'll be
terse like a number of people who are
students of religion I've spent a lot of
time lately as you should if you have
the opportunity I recommend it very
highly with Professor Durman
McCullough's history of Christianity
marvelous work of scholarship and
literature written by a mainstream
believer extraordinarily broad and deep
in which he ponders one very important
question the only one I've got time for
now what happened to the word
Christendom remember they used to be
such a term it used to extend across the
world and the hope is that it would
extend even further than it was uh
neurotically
used to mean those areas of human
civilization and areas yet to be
civilized of course where the word of
Jesus Christ reigned or would reign and
it's all gone the word is never used
except historically or sarcastically now
and Michalek doesn't say it ended
because of the Crusades that he could
didn't Crusades didn't kill it not
because of slavery mandated by
Christianity that in killing either
northern mass murder of colonial
subjects in the yet-to-be Christianized
world that wasn't sufficient he didn't
really end he said til 1914 when all the
Christian empires of the world
austria-hungary Germany France Britain
France is a slight exception to this
Polonius like one and Russia all of them
commanded by Christian Emperor's and
calling upon their subjects as
Christians went to war with each other
and very nearly destroyed the whole
human civilization and certainly reduced
it to a point
where we can't guess where we might be
if it hadn't been for this extraordinary
I break of barbarism and algebra system
and of Stalinism of which it was the
seedbed as well
I mentioned this partly because I want
to maintain that there's no such thing
as a religion of peace by definition and
second to point out in hand that it's
best historian has to admit something
that if I was a Christian would make me
humiliated but because there was another
Empire involved in that war the Ottoman
Empire which also came to an end its
other name was the Caliphate the Muslim
Caliphate he'd went to war on the side
of German and Austrian imperialism and
Hungarian imperialism and it lost not
just the war having proclaimed a
worldwide jihad against Christianity
except for German and Austrian and
Hungarian Christianity which were its
allies and he didn't just lose the war
but by 1924 had been dissolved by the
Turkish leadership Parature had lost the
caliphate and that's the only one that
still has supporters the other Christian
and religious empires have all gone but
the Caliphate still has pads not just in
the Muslim world sometimes referred to
by Muslims as the DAR al-islam the house
of Islam but also in what some Muslims
called the dar al-harb the house of war
the part of the world that isn't yet
Muslim the little Caliphate clubs in
London now in Berlin and elsewhere quite
important ones and what I want to know
is why that is and what we should think
about it believers in this fantasy have
Lauri's spared me the need to say much
of this have committed extraordinary
atrocities in Istanbul in Madrid in
India in the Philippines in Indonesia
and of course in our own fair city and
the pretext for it very they can be
excuse for the mass murder can be that
Australia has helped East Timor become
independent from Indonesia they can be
the Newsweek as printed a full
story about the desecration of a
supposedly holy book you never know what
it's going to be next but everyone knows
to be careful about it and everyone
understands that the threat of violence
that backs it is believable and that's
my opening position now you will say I
can hear it already being said you may
be saying it already to yourselves
because the defense mechanisms kick in
and in any case Laurie already said it
for you and I hope professor Ramadan
won't feel the need to say it again but
if he does fair enough
you may say ah that's not the real Islam
those aren't real Muslims now isn't that
a fascinating objection does is there
anyone in this room I exempt Professor
Ramadan because it's his turn to speak
next is anyone in this room who would
care to arbitrate that question who is
to say where is the authority that
defines who is a true son of the Prophet
or true interpreter of his work part of
the problem to begin with and it's part
of the problem because it is a religion
is that it's perfectly true to say we
don't know who the true Muslims are how
right that is who do who does speak for
it there's only the second problem with
defining Islam as peaceful only the
second problem the defining it is
peaceful has to do with the fact that
it's highly fissile and highly
schismatic that there is a civil war
going on within it the religion of peace
as we speak at least one civil war
between the votaries of this religion of
peace is already taking place and some
of it is exported outside that world
into ours very salient fact the first
reason though is this Islam makes very
large claims for itself very large
claims indeed it claims to be the last
and final religion the last and final
revelation when you see bumper stickers
everyone says you can't reduce major
things to a bumper sticker it's not my
idea to have bumper stickers saying
Islam is the solution it's a well-known
slogan actually if parties associated
with the Muslim
they say Islam is the solution for
everything it takes care of all your
life and the one to come sexuality
political economy banking diet relations
with other religions everything it's a
total solution
what is creepy about the word total hope
I don't have to tell an audience like
this it's the first five letters of the
word term sanitarian it's absolute it's
absolute it's all-inclusive it's it's
unanswerable and oddly for religion that
makes such large claims notice another
thing about Islam
it doesn't particularly like having
these claims questioned or scrutinized
in other words this as there just is
there is with all religions an inverse
relationship between the claims they
make and the evidence they can produce
for them you must have noticed that with
Islam a younger religion and perhaps
therefore more in its first flush
there's an extraordinarily strong
willingness to say that any challenge to
its absolute is claims is by definition
profane and profanity and blasphemy can
be the antecedent to very severe
punishment and often are for Muslims and
for non-muslims and this is not a road
of peace in my submission that's my
first point completed the claim to
govern everything from hygiene to sex
and the afterlife
which contains detailed prescriptions
for the good and bad versions of itself
against strikes me as somewhat so
charged herion and they're both based
upon two very very questionable and not
very peaceful concepts one is the idea
of a perfect human being the Prophet
Muhammad and the other is the idea of a
perfect book Quran the recitation now
the category perfect human primary door
mammal and the category flawless book
that could possibly not use any kind of
change revision or editing our
categories that do not exist there are
no members of these categories
therefore any challenge to this faith is
bound to lead to heresy and to schism
and does and just as all forms of
absolutism and to tout Arianism leader
worship and revealed truth unalterable
text always do because they can break
perhaps but they cannot bend and thus
the latent potential of violence with
between them among them as well as
within them is very great and at any
change at any moment someone is in
danger of being accused of being an
apostate or an unbeliever this week the
Coptic Pope of Egypt Pope Shenouda who
represents 10 million Egyptians was
hustled onto Egyptian TV he's not asked
honorable that often I'd only use even
asked on this time I mean he was told
he'd better come on why is the leader of
Egyptians huge it's huge Christian
minority suddenly compelled to make a TV
appearance because one of his bishops
had said in a interview that he thought
that some of the verses of the Quran
showed signs of having been added later
on and to be later accretion and Pope
Shenouda was asked forced under the
television to say it's not that didn't
happen it's it couldn't have happened
you shouldn't even be discussed so that
it is has to be claimed even by
non-muslim subjects of a Muslim states
that there is after all because no
Christian claims this about the Bible
anymore no Jew claims it about the
Pentateuch after all yes there is just
one book that's completely word and
letter perfect from the first time it
was not even written down but recited
now demands that you believe the
impossible do not lead to peaceful
outcomes nor do they lead to peaceful or
tolerant regimes and I'm not going to
ask you which Muslim country you would
like to live in I don't know whether
professor Ramallah will tell us which
one he would pick if he had to because I
don't have to ask you a question I that
was already in your mind
can you wind up now yes I can dilute I
can yes and we'll shall shall in fat
sexual repression doesn't lead to peace
the idea that women are inferior to men
is a profound cause of unease let's say
the least of it
all religions make some form of this
claim Islam seems to make it less
apologetically than most claims that the
world will come to an end in apocalyptic
form which will lead to the victory of
one religion or another not peaceful
either it's possible perhaps I haven't
exhausted all my mass that the end is
teaching of battle stories to children
only and the stories of lethal feuds
from seventh century Arabia don't lead
to peace or the forcing of children to
memorize and retell such stories by rote
doesn't need to peace either yeah it's
arguable the peace isn't attainable at
all it may be argument some forms that
sometimes in places that religion is
deemed desirable but it will not come by
the fanatical adoption of a man-made
text and a man-made supreme leader
nothing but war and tyranny has ever
come from the adoption of formula like
these the only way to moral and
intellectual satisfaction even temporary
that's only temporary but of any kind at
all is comes to those who are willing to
take the great risk of thinking for
themselves at all hazards and trying to
share the benefits of that tolerance and
that open-mindedness
with others and with that for now I rest
my case thank you very much
thank you
first thank you for for this invitation
here this evening and I really also want
to thank once again Oxford University
Press
organizing my visit here in the States
and I won't forget ACLU and others who
helped me to struggle for my rights of
for being here in the States and being
able to to speak to listen and to
contribute to the to the American debate
of the Western debate and I know that
among us Jameel Jaffer is here so I want
to thank you again for this support let
me go straight to some of the points and
and I'm not going to respond
straightaway to some of the claims on
all the claims but during my talk as it
is the introductory speech let me
highlight some of the points when I got
the question of course as a Muslim and
as a believer but as someone who is
coming from within the realm of
religions it was quite clear that to put
it that way was not the right question
to ask is Islam a religion of peace or
is Christianity or is Judaism or is
Buddhism religion or spirituality of
peace doesn't mean anything for me it's
not the right question it's not the
accurate question not because I think
that there is a good Islam and the right
Islam and there are people who are
acting in a no Muslim was not
representing what Islam is this is not
my point I never said that by the way
but the point for me is really to to to
try to deal with a phenomenon with
religion from within and to try to
understand the dynamics and to
understand the trends and to understand
the diversity so just two essential eyes
one religion by saying it's all about
war it's all about peace and even you
know said by george w bush doesn't mean
anything for me
so this is one one point which is
important but religions and all the
religions and Islam among all the other
religions are dealing with human beings
and if you deal with human beings you
deal with violence and you deal with
peace you did with violence because
human beings by definition have to do
with violence they have to deal with
Agri civet E where's wars and to expect
from religion not to tackle the issue is
just to dream of something which is not
going to happen all the spirituality go
for Buddhist I'll go for the
bhagavad-gita you deal with violence so
this is it now what is the answer coming
from religions and from trance when it
comes to violence and to peace this is
the right question for me do we have
something which is coming and helping us
to go towards peace this is for me the
right question so now once again when I
have people speaking from outside and
especially the case these days when it
comes to Islam is we speak about Islam
and we speak about you know something
which is a religion that is perceived
through one window or through one
interpretation and we very often take
what is visible to the media but Islam
is as complex as Christianity and
Judaism and Buddhism and Hindus it's a
diversity of interpretations yes you're
right the Quran is for the Muslims the
very word of God but many
interpretations and many ways of dealing
with the books the problem is that the
book the problem is the reader is the
way now now we have only 10 minutes so
this is why when for example you take a
text and you can do this with the Bible
with the Torah the the the Gospels it's
always the same tell me the way you read
I will know what is in your mind but not
for sure what is in the text and this is
something which is the starting point of
a serious discussion in theology because
I don't like all these intellectuals and
philosophers and even journalists they
are very keen on on understanding the
complexity of philosophies and the
simplicity of religions that's not right
and the one to blame sometimes are the
religious people themselves because the
way to present their religion is
something which is all of dream and
hopes and not dealing with the reality
which is a complex reality and this is
where I think we have to come to a
better understanding so very often when
I deal with such topics I just have to
start with the very beginning we want to
deal with the religion let us speak
about religious issues and religious
understanding not to avoid the starting
- just to come to news papers and
headlines it's not going to help us to
understand religion just to go for what
is happening in the world let us also
understand the fundamentals and then
come to some of the translation the
historical experiences because as much
as you can speak about September 11 you
can speak about the 16th century under
the Empire the Ottoman in power which
was a great civilization with the
diversity Christians and Jews and and
even non-believers working and living
together we are always speaking about
Indonesia but we can prove everything
with history if you don't get a sense of
what are the principles we are talking
about so for example coming from a
religious viewpoint I wouldn't see Islam
is the religion of peace I say Islam is
the region for human beings it deals
with peace and it deals with violence
and it helps the people to go from
violence towards peace it's a way
towards peace but it's not a peaceful
reality because we are not peaceful
beings we are all in tension just to get
that inner peace in us and this is
starting-point of the Islamic philosophy
of human being is really to start with
your own self look at your heart and
tell me if you are at peace or you were
at peace peace is a process through
which you have it's a process that you
get at the end of a self education
educate yourself to get this inner peace
this is coming from the universal
message of all the religions you get
this in Buddhist before even speaking or
not even speaking about one God but you
get it in today's we get it in in
Christianity educate yourself to get
that peace so you have to deal with your
inner Wars and tensions so this is the
way we have to deal with the issue about
peace and the starting point is
spirituality why because at the end of
the day is really something which is
important and this is the difference
that you can find between Islam and the
Greek tradition if you come back to
Socrates Socrates was saying your body
in itself is bad and this is why you
have the soul helping you to mud to
educate your body and to master your
body in Islam there is nothing like that
your body is not bad is not good and
your soul is not bad is not good it
depends on what you are going to make
out of it it's your responsibility
because you are free your dignity's in
your freedom and you have to use your
freedom to make it back to make it good
take the good decision for your body
that's good make the bad decision that's
bad so it's all a question of educating
yourself with your own body and it's
exactly the same when it comes to the
understanding of the world
so this way towards peace it's based on
education it's based on a spiritual way
of dealing with yourself and you know
what is the meaning of that the very
essence of what I am trying to translate
now is jihad so this is something which
is coming from the classical tradition
and once again the classical tradition
is helping us understand jihad is resist
the bad to promote the good and the bad
is in yourself first and then you will
try to get the good and to get the good
is this inner peace
so jihad is not the way towards war is
the way towards peace because you have
as human being in
principally to deal with your inner Wars
and inner tensions it's exactly the same
in the in the world that what we have to
do you will find something which is the
will of God what is the will of God
diversity
he made you tribes and nations in order
for you to know each other but you know
the risk of diversity it could be lots
of knowledge and protection wars so you
have to educate yourself to live with
other and with this diversity to know
each other so you can look at Islam
saying you know what Islam claims it's
the last and final religion it's not
enough to end with this sentence the
most important thing is what Islam is
saying about the other religions that
you have to remove them from the earth
no he made you tribes and nations in
order for you to know each other so
respect the Christians respect the Jews
respect the people who were before you
so it's so cold towards respect that you
find also in the texts so yes you will
have Muslims they will take one
dimension and interpret this as as it is
the final religion we are not going to
deal with all the others but you cannot
deny the fact that through history
Muslims in many situations in many
historical situation we're dealing with
this diversity and we learn from the
Middle Ages and we learn from the
Ottoman Empire
that Muslims are able to deal with
diversity and take from the Judy the
Jewish tradition my monedas was freaking
Arabic better than me he was a Jew and
he was an intellectual and he was a
theologian and he was dealing with
respectful people so all these Muslims
were wrong Muslims because they don't
they don't understand that the final
religion should not listen to the first
monetary tradition that's not true you
cannot reduce this in such a way it's
too simplistic to represent what a
religion is and what a history and a
historical experience is so this is for
me something which has to do with the
diversity that we have that it's rooted
in the Islamic tradition as well in the
classical tradition that we find it
so when you deal with diversity know
that you know you need to promote and
it's out of your personal education
mutual knowledge to get respect but you
also have to deal sometimes with
oppressors and people who are going to
try to take over and you have to resist
and this resistance in order to reform
the world for the better is the very
meaning of jihad now once again I will
never deny the fact that some Muslims
some theologians in history and now are
using some of the verses you know which
is for me unacceptable and you know I go
even further than that just after
September 11 when I was invited by time
I came here and I was asked about this I
said you know what it's not only none
it's not only not good and not Islamic
it's anti Islamic what they are doing
it's against my religion it's against
the principles so I'm not saying this is
the good religion and this is bad I
acknowledged the fact that they are
interpreting the text in a way but what
I am saying from where I am from within
the tradition is this is anti Islamic
this is not the right way to deal with
the text so you can introduce this into
something which is oh the only right
Muslims are the Muslims who are acting
the way I believe Islam is meaning bad I
think it's not fair it's not a
discussion that we can have so let me
come to my conclusion here at the end of
the day if you go through the text and
you understand the philosophy of this
way towards peace dealing with your own
Wars and inner tensions and the tensions
within the society you will find
interpretations within Islam that are
promoting something which has to do with
peace without avoiding violence because
we all have to deal with our violence
this is something which is important and
in history you will find the examples
for this and for that so don't rely on
history with history you prove whatever
you want but at the end of the day this
is exactly the case for all the
philosophies
all the people who are promoting human
rights we all have to do something which
is out of humility to check our people
because with the best means you can
promote the bad or the worst attitude in
the name of human rights we want to kill
people in the name of human rights we
can promote and support the war in Iraq
and Afghanistan where so many innocent
people have been killed and I said it
from the beginning never forget that the
blood of a variety of Iraqi innocent man
or woman is as valuable as the blood of
an American innocent man and woman no
discussion about this so the best
ideology in the name of human rights in
the name of democracy could be used by
people to promote the worst so let us be
humble instead of criticizing one
religion and one ideology to know that
in our universe of reference you will
find people using our texts our values
sometimes vote a good and sometimes for
the bad sometimes for peace and
sometimes for war sometimes for dignity
and sometimes for money sometimes for
protecting freedom and sometimes for
geostrategic interests it's not try to
essentialize by saying or all the wars
on human rights for human rights or all
these philosophies are right or wrong or
promoting a philosophy or a religion of
of violence I think that this kind of
conclusion are very dangerous because
they don't give us the opportunity to
find in any single religion in any
single philosophy people of goodwill
these are the people who can talk to
each other understand each other and
make it possible to live in diversity
and in mutual respect thank
well I also don't think that the motion
if that's what it is
chosen for this evening is a
particularly good one but I knew about
it as long as professor Ramadan didn't I
did at least agree to speak to it in
spite of that reservation and I make
this not just as a point of self-pity
but because for example someone in this
great city who's become used to making
nice these days
imam ralph who describes himself as both
founder and visionary of whatever the
downtown establishment is now to be
called wrote an article and pretty sure
it was on the eve of Yom Kippur for the
New York Times in which he said when you
think about it this is the one of the
most hand-washing statements I've yet
heard him make in the make nice
department when you think about it our
word Islam is almost exact translation
of your word Shalom I didn't say it I've
never heard anyone else said it isn't
true among other things Islam may have
some relationship to the word Salaam
which can have some relationship to the
word prostration or religious observance
it may but we know what Islam means is
intended to mean and does mean is
surrender to God acceptance of God
surrender sometimes translated as
submission but in any case the
resignation to the divine will again not
in my opinion a prescription for peace
but that isn't my only objection to it I
don't think that objection or fatalism
or the prostration before a divine or
let alone before holy men who are
interpreting the book is a recipe for
good health of any kind mental or
physical since we're talking about the
Greek concept of the of the body and of
the Spirit and of virtue
just get that out of the way now you're
right I was surprised to find myself
saying professor when you say that the
problem is not the book but the reader
in the case of the Koran that is
certainly true of me it's true probably
of every book I've ever read that there
are difficulties I have with it or
capacities I don't have with which to
approach here to understand it but if I
reading the Quran I certainly say well I
I can't tell whether this book is the
Word of God or not I can only doubt that
there is such thing but I can hope that
this was a bad day for God kansai and I
can hope to live in a country where I
can say that and get applause ah
yes and and even and even mirth and
don't think that isn't the precious
thing and don't think it's being
compromised I'm coming to that I don't
like the idea of a paradise reward for
martyrs don't like it it's not me
somehow don't like the account gently I
don't like the early accounts of village
squabbles with the local Jews who've
taken a look at the new claiming to be
the Messiah and decided about him what
they decided about the previous claimant
he's no good not up to snuff do you
think the Jews are ever going to be
forgiven for that by the way for
rejecting 2 in a row I don't think so
and I don't see why they should hope for
I don't see why they should hope for
forgiveness either and still I'm allowed
to stand here and say this and there are
many parts of Europe I couldn't do that
any more
or I'd have to be very careful in who
I'd invited for the audience I couldn't
do it easily on the air couldn't do it
easily in print couldn't do it easily in
public couldn't do it on certain
campuses couldn't do it with certain
publishing houses now all of this has
been done to us by the wrong Muslims
well let's get together then isolate who
these wrong Muslims are who've imposed a
culture of violence back to censorship
upon us and let's get rid of them and
have an honest discussion about the text
and the reader
and I think the ball is in your court
professor on that just to stay with my
own profession the thing I know best not
one major media outlet print or
broadcast has yet shown you what the
Danish cartoons actually look like Yale
University Press which commissioned a
book on them which was to include the
cartoons as how could it not
eventually pan Yale University Press
panicked and published the book without
the cartoons over the objections of its
author everybody knows what I'm talking
about
the President of the United States and
head of the Joint Chiefs a few days ago
was so pulverized with fear that they
had to address personally in pleading
tones of Christian not bag in Florida
who might have been or might not have
been about to commit a minor act of
blasphemy is this the culture that Islam
wants us to have in relation to it one
of if you like preemptive submission
pre-emptive cowering backed by the fear
of force because that is not naughty
culture ism that's not that's nothing
like the gorgeous mosaic that's actually
the absolute negation of what a
multicultural system would be like and a
multicultural system has to look rather
askance I think on a religion whose
preachers and websites openly openly
make threats against people like myself
against the Jewish people against the
Hindus who haven't se gone even
monotheists can be killed on almost any
pretext against and and very and very
and a very important point and I have to
make it and against the wrong kind of
Muslim now professor don't I'll say this
is mildly as light as I can don't some
you may not be aware that you were and
I'm City I don't want to increase the
area of unexpected offense taking that's
been so hugely broadened by the
sensitivities of of a religion that has
the answer to everything but I'll just
say I don't greatly care to be told as
if I didn't know
that an Iraqi life is as precious as an
American wine and as someone who's
visited Iraq quite a lot had the
occasion to think about it a good deal
wonder if you could mention anything
United States has done in Iraq that is
remotely as criminal as sadistic and as
violent as the blowing up of the mosque
of the golden dome in Samara one of the
holiest sites in the Muslim world
callously blown up by Sunni forces in
alliance with forces who perhaps not
agree with them for once on this was a
sure cig Baathists probably they got the
weapons in that high explosive from them
that makes it worse surely intending to
start and successfully in fact
initiating a civil war in which
countless thousands of people have been
killed religious processions have been
just fired upon funerals have been fired
on quran's but without number of course
being incinerated much more importantly
children old people and civilians now
where is I just wonder you'll be you'll
have to meet you must be able to quote
it to me
where is the Sunni fat were against this
conduct where is it where is the
authoritative statement of moral outrage
in the city world saying this is not
acceptable behavior for followers of the
Prophet I missed it
and so apparently did the followers of
the Prophet miss because they keep on
doing this all the time they were doing
it before United States got to Iraq and
they'll be doing it after we've gone so
I'm sorry I won't be talked to in that
tone of voice and I want to know I
repeat my question who has the authority
to assume fatwas is it Sheikh Qaradawi
who sometimes very much expressed
respectful who on al-jazeera gives
advice on all kinds of things
some of them innocuous sexual matters
and so forth doctrinal rulings sometimes
upon the legitimacy or otherwise of
suicide bombing if directed at Israelis
not just Jews of
I know no we draw the distinction on the
other hand Hamas which does the suicide
bombing doesn't draw this tension if I
can't issue a fatwa against Hamas if I'm
a Muslim if there's no one who will and
they won't surely someone could say we
don't think Hamas should have on its
website and manifesto the reproduction
of the protocols of the Elders of Zion a
Christian fascist fabrication that is
one of the warrants for the Nazi
extermination is solution I mean surely
that's a question for the UN anti-racism
Committee on a spare day or or since
that spare day never seems to come for
some Muslim authority to say no brothers
don't don't do that it doesn't come it
doesn't happen look on the website it's
still there
now you you would do better I think
professor if you identified yourself as
a member of a very small and critical
and endangered minority someone who
really is against all this and will say
so I will also decry the fact that the
religion itself can't seem to throw it
off but you seem to have that a little
bit both ways
now yes so then my question stems is if
you want diversity as much as the
professor does as much as I'm sure many
people here do religious diversity
cultural diversity what you need for it
is this you need a secular state with a
godless Constitution like this one
choose to speak as you did of the
Ottoman Empire as a place where there
were not just Muslims but Christians and
Jews is either not to know yourself or
to expect others to have forgotten or
not to know what it meant to be a
non-muslim
under the Caliphate or under any similar
theocratic Muslim Authority to this day
know what we need
what secularism is the only guarantee of
religious freedom and yours and that of
every other Muslim we will defend but
you won't be surprised that we have some
questions for you in the meanwhile thank
you okay
you laughed a lot make love to people I
have a problem with we are talking our
people who are being killed happy
good-looking our people about wars
that's that's fine I have a problem with
the way you are putting things here
first you know when you said the first
remark say okay you know what total
these are the first letters of
totalitarianism because Islam is a
comprehensive religion by the way
exactly like Judaism and Christianity
I never met a rabbi a Christian telling
me you are with God on Saturday and with
the dead d-david on Monday or in the
hottest ad but in Islam it's as if it's
all together it's a very simplistic way
of dealing with this land it's a
comprehensive religion but there are
rights of garden rights of people and
you have to differentiate and it's very
old come back to Alan deliver her the
French philosopher telling you you know
what separating authority between what
is to God and what is to human being
it's coming from Islam and this was
taught and translated into Christianity
in the Middle Ages exactly the opposite
of what we think you may disagree but
you at least acknowledge the fact that
there are many interpretation in history
then say Islam is this total mean
totalitarian
that Otto is our the first letter of of
autocratic it's not an argument it's not
serious and as I said yes it's we are
talking about reading and by the way
it's for all the text is the same for
the Marxist you know quite well about
the Marxist tradition and you know what
some Marxists did with the text it means
that everything that Marx wrote was bad
no once again it's a serious matter here
when we are talking about
interpretations we I mean it I mean that
yes there are people using the text in a
way which is not and you have
historically to acknowledge the fact
that you yourself might have read some
of the text not in the good way
so this is the second point about now
the cartoons and and and some of the
things that you were referring to you
know look at the Muslim majority
countries and look at the Muslims and
the Western Muslims and if you look at
the reaction of the Muslims living in
the States or living in Europe
you cannot just see Islam was wander all
the Muslims were reacting the same way
by the way the very month of October
when the whole story started I was in
Copenhagen and I said to the Muslims
take a critical distance and don't be
involved in this you don't like it but
let it be because this is freedom the
point is that that we are not making
because you are reducing something which
is oh the cartoon was all about freedom
of expression you don't speak about the
instrumentalization by politicians and
governments in muslim-majority countries
and even in the West about the whole
story because this is too complex to be
put in so many authorities many scholars
and then you come with the who are the
Muslims who are able to speak if you
read some of the things that I'm doing
or writing you would say that yes I
acknowledge the fact that there is a
crisis of authority in Islam
but please don't tell me today that you
didn't hear the Muslim voices around the
world criticizing and saying this is
unacceptable to kill the people in the
streets in in New York and the
condemnation was widespread by the
scholars if you don't hear of course
this you know not less than 12 councils
of Muslim scholars around the world from
a man to Istanbul to a Paris Dublin
we're condemning this it's as if they
don't speak because at the end when the
people are calling to kill for killing
they are heard but when people are
condemning what is done in the name of
the religion it's as if they don't speak
it doesn't make the headlines but I'm
telling you that some scholars did it
and said it and I was one of them and
you know what is very interesting indeed
the whole discussion that when the
people like what I'm saying say you know
what what he's saying is good but he's a
known minority it's open but he's alone
but when the people don't like what I
say said you know why he has huge
followers so depending on if you like or
not what he said you have followers or
not so I can tell you something that the
mainstream Muslim presence in the West
in many Muslim majority countries as
well I acknowledge the fact that they
are critical towards the use of the
religion now many Muslims yes
would support and I did this and by the
way I was banned from the cont this
country mainly for that are saying for
example that the Palestinian resistance
is legitimate and I said that and I
repeat this here but I also said that
the means use to kill innocent civilians
and innocent Jews in and Israeli in
Israel I cannot accept that have you
heard that I said it so
and I am not done I am not alone I'm not
alone so once again its many
interpretations listen to this and also
be respectful of this diversity and the
way the Muslims are doing with this so
so the Fatah WA the legal opinions are
coming from everywhere and when you
speak about some of the issues because
you know it's sensitive so you put it in
a very simplistic way women violence
Hamas and all this together it gives the
impression
oh yes yes this is right but you don't
give the people all the interpretation
everything which is done in every one of
these fields coming from the Islamic
tradition and scholars of today trying
to improve the status of women trying to
to condemn violence and to promote
justice and peace you also have to deal
with this at the end you may have a
problem with religion much more than
with Islam and - tell me - tell me at
the end of your speech the only right
solution is a secular godless
Constitution in the United States of
America I think it's problematic because
I don't think it's a godless nation here
there is a reference so no no the
Constitution no only the Constitution
now but I don't think that even you're
the politician and even the President of
the United States of America is
referring to something which is a
godless secular system or I don't
understand all the speeches I listen to
but the point is that my way of dealing
with the secular or separating offer I
don't have a problem with separating
authorities I don't have a problem with
this and it even my solution in Israel
and with Palestinian I want one state
where the people can live together under
the same rule of law but it's as if we
agree on this in France but not really
in Israel because it wouldn't be Israel
so it's a selective not consistent
I wanted to say this everywhere in that
way and then you are saying it but I
would say that the people who are
floating sometimes they want this for
some and not for all so let me tell you
something I'm critical from within I
think that I'm far from being the only
one and from within the Islamic
tradition listen to also for example the
Western Muslims who the way they were
dealing with the September 11th the way
they were dealing with the cartoon
crisis the way they were dealing with
fitna many of them were saying no don't
be involved in the United States of
America how the Muslims reacted to all
this controversy on the mosque here in
New York or in burning the Koran day
let's eat
were they all violent or have you heard
some voices of reason and peace in this
country I think if you are honest you
heard these voices of peace of people
referring to their religion and say we
are Americans and what we want for this
country is a peaceful proactive
existence and coexistence I think that
this is also coming from the ethics
their values and you have to value this
as being the future so to dream or
something which is a godless future I
think it's a wrong dream but to be able
to deal with all this diversity and to
listen to the voices instead of
rejecting an entity as something which
is bad per se let us look at the people
who from within are trying to do good
with what they are and what they believe
in I think that this is the way forward
for for all of us and this is the way I
would I would put it for for for the
future and I'm not talking about wrong
Muslims I'm talking about a critical
debate among Muslims and I hope that you
yourself with the people who are
supporting some of the views you are
also critical about the way you
sometimes reduce the other to an alien
presence not helping us to go to a bed
to get to a better understanding treaty
debate sometimes I'm just lost with the
way you put things because the debate is
closed before it started thank
we're going to try to get to the core of
some of what you raised and then get to
some questions we that ran long but I
think it was I think it was very
fruitful
I want to distill something that came up
here to two important things one is the
question of authority in Islam a scholar
once told me that he thinks the problem
with Islam is that every Tom Dick and
Harry can give fatwa and that there's no
Pope there's no Magisterium and so in
some ways what you have is leadership by
whoever has you know the biggest
audience now right now one of the most
revered scholars is Yusuf al-qaradawi
and he says he takes an opposite
position from Professor Ramadan on the
question of suicide attacks in Israel he
has a program with 40 million listeners
and he has a website and he says that
suicide attacks on Israeli citizens even
women and children are acceptable
because all of Israel is a militarized
society and all citizens are combatants
so the question here is he has you know
he's got this very large very large
audience and since there is no
arbitrating Authority there's no single
Authority is not what Islam becomes
whoever has the mote has the biggest
audience has the sway in what what the
faith is I think that if there is no I
think it's it's true if we look at what
is happening now in the Muslim majority
countries as well as in the West that
there is something that we can call an a
crisis of authority in the book radical
reform I'm tackling this from many
viewpoints and not only from you know
political discussion it's really even in
our way to deal with Sciences Human
Sciences ethics we have this problem you
know when you don't know how to manage
diversity it ends up with the
and not knowing who is leading and this
is the way we don't have a church so we
have diversity in Islam so we have to
know how to manage this and it's
problematic and I would say that if you
look today at what is happening even
though we have this crisis if you look
today at what is happening around the
world you will see that we have many
councils still the mainstream is not
promoting you know violence and
extremist views the mainstream is
promoting you know what is said for
example about Western Muslims are
Muslims living in Muslim majority
countries is about transparency no
corruption democratization this is the
mainstream that is coming now we have
voices and you speak about Yusuf
al-qaradawi and you are saying that I
was a support one of supporters of of
him you know I have one position in
every one and everybody I'm dealing with
in history in the past and as is in the
present I read what is said and I try to
be selective so for example on that
point killing I said no I disagree on
identity and when he once was very harsh
with me saying no we have one identity
and his Islamic I said no we have
multiple identity and Swiss by
nationality Egyptian by memory Muslim by
religion European by culture these are
my identities he didn't agree so I
talked to people but I know that on this
for example in Israel I disagree with
him but you cannot reduce Youssef
Accardo in the world today to
disposition because he had many other
positions on women on the society on
democracy he is promoting something
which is he called democracy in the
Muslim majority country that you have to
consider by saying okay on this we
disagree and on that we need to have a
critical debate you can adjust because
one position we don't like one position
we remove the people from the landscape
now they are part of the landscape and
they are heard in the Muslim majority
countries so this is my position on that
well I'm certainly not going to
criticize Islam for not having a pope
and in fact it would be your your visa
avi in this discussion was horribly an
error in any case in the Christianity
never had only one Pope and still
doesn't I mean there were several
Catholic claimants to the papacy at
different times just among Roman
Catholics but today I mentioned one of
them the Pope of the Coptic Christians
based in Cairo the the Eastern Orthodox
don't call their leader the Pope they
call him the patriarch but the Christian
world is full of Pope types usually
anathematizing one another the Pope is
just the word that innocent American is
used for the man who claims to be the
leader of the Roman Catholic so I don't
think it's possible in fact have a moral
authority within religion because I
think the two things that's so sharply
divorced but this doesn't this doesn't
lead to just chaos because and it's it
doesn't lead to the dictatorship of
minorities or extremists in there give
you two examples quickly in the case of
the moral blackmail of Denmark that was
backed up by a physical threat to
destroy its economy and and burn out its
embassies across the world well
coordinated attack of sabotage against
the small European democracy the
organizing group was a thing call the
OIC the organisation of the Islamic
Conference groups all the Muslim
countries in the worlds of increasingly
powerful Lobby the United Nations hopes
to pass an international resolution
forbidding all criticism of religion all
forms of blasphemy and profanity every
ambassador of those countries in
Copenhagen went to mr. Rasmussen the
prime minister of Denmark and told him
under the threat of violence he should
change his law serves to allow us to
allow him to determine what went into
the Danish newspapers and when he said
he couldn't do that things got a lot
worse
that's the ambassador of Egypt and the
ambassador of Turkey and the ambassador
of Belgium pourtant countries in case of
Egypt containing an enormous Christian
populace
coming to you as if this book for a
religion
I'll disclaimers true or it is not
itself evidently not true but it is
certainly made don't let's be in any
doubt about it and don't have let's have
any doubt that it means to extend its
influence over the people who are
sitting in this hall second very quick
the fatwa gates Salman Rushdie in other
words the offer of money to suborn
murder for the crime of writing the work
of fiction in his own name by the
spiritual leader of sheer Islam that's
what the fat work meant then means now
was after the murder of many people
associated or not with the publication
the book repudiated ostensibly by the
Iranian government after long pressure
and lobbying at the United Nations about
ten years ago I think that was but I've
been since then for the pleasure of
going to Friday prayers of Tehran
University twice to hear the sermon and
on both occasions there were banners and
slogans saying that the Imams
holy sentence against someone Russia
will never die hasn't died with the Imam
for many's death war will always be
carried up not I think a very good use
of the premises of the University I
can't speak for whether it's a good
occasion for Friday prayers or not well
it brings me to a second point see
there's something shady involved here
some people say that Islam and Islamists
give themselves permission to lie to
non-believers it sounds like the sort of
vulgar paranoid thing that an
islamaphobe would go around saying
doesn't it with very easy to disprove
except that it hasn't been as that
example will just illustrate and these
are not minor threats these are threats
to the very core of what we believe is
the essential thing for society which is
the ability to ask questions to read the
books we choose to pursue unfettered
investigations and these are flatly
negated by the by the claims of the
religion that says it is the answer to
everything
Kenny can I respond to this because
really I thought that reverse
no that's a Kia question no no no the
talia question is no the point is on on
the cotton issue the way you are
translating things is problematic let me
just come to some of the facts here very
quickly the first thing is that it
happened in in October that the cotton
were published between October till
January nothing happened and I met the
Muslim organizations in Denmark and I
told them and many were of the opinion
don't react the ambassador's of Muslim
majority countries and Arab countries
mainly asked the prime minister to meet
with them he refused and my position
that he made me he made a mistake here
because he should have met them telling
them I had no say in this it has to do
with freedom of media this is not of my
business he didn't do this they took it
as humiliation they went back they
bought the tickets no no Matt look
easily no no no no no let me finish
because we will come to the point here
they went back and they bought the
ticket of a group of Muslims among the
Muslim leaders in Denmark to go to
Muslim majority countries to just
present what was done tell me Egypt is
ruled by Islam is it Islam which is used
there Mubarak is a secular president
isn't it Syria is a Muslim leader or is
a secular state all the main societies
where the government used this because
you know what happened is it's easier to
use the people to tell them against the
West you can demonstrate but not against
the government which is an autocratic
government so it's not religion is
political instrumentalization of popular
emotions against the West just to make
it a religious issue you cannot just
avoid talking about political
instrumentalization of countries where
there is no democracy and this country
are not Islamist
countries they are secular autocratic
countries your third point I can't
possibly disagree with you of course is
a great G of opportunism and derma Gogi
and I'm certain hypocrisy as well and in
fact I have I will I will say that I've
heard you and seen you saying that
before and I agree I don't think I would
classify a country that hauls the
Christian leader of its minority onto
the TV to say no it's not possible it
could be have been any exactly the
secularization no to give you a truth
instrument I would not nor would I
describe the Alawite regime it's an
Alawite sectarian regime not a secular
one that is funded by Tehran and is the
funder of the murder gang Hezbollah as
secular either no don't insult me not
that it really hurts me that much they
feel humiliated or anything all right
whereas whereas apparently takes was
apparently the leader of a proud country
like Egypt when a demand to interfere in
the internal affairs of Denmark no is
not met feels I'm sorry I just to end
this discussion for me on my side is the
only fact that you acknowledge that
there is a political instrumentalization
of religion and you say I'm right that's
enough for me this is exactly I knew it
earlier you were trying to tell me what
Karl Marx said on the subject that's
your job
I've had a valuable exchange I think
that was worth it worth those but I know
that there are people in the room and
also listening in from the satellite
sites who want to have some of their
questions asked and a few of them are
along these lines and they actually are
aimed at you mr. Hitchens because of
your ringing endorsement really of a
secular society and and atheism a
question from Vail Colorado did Jewish
Christian or other religions have a
greater claim on being religions of
peace than Islam I mean is your beef
really with Islam or is it with all
religion well I'm sorry the comrade from
Yale tuned in so late
I mean relation up to miss the first
four or five minutes of my 10 minute
introduction usual devoted to a close
exegesis of Professor McCullough's
realization that Christianity it out
genocided and out Ward and out crusaded
itself finally by 1914 if you care to
pick up I think you might be able to
announce sign it if you will pick it up
my book go is not great you will find a
discussion of the warrants for slavery
murder genocide and land theft that
occur in the books of Moses and there
are an interface herbal offense to any
civilized person and the reason why so
many Jews are secular
at least one of the reasons so again I
could go on but I really feel I don't
need to a corollary question would maybe
it's just a something funny would
atheism be a non religion of peace I
know
know if there's something pretty very
slightly intolerant about atheism at
least I hope I should I might just say
though because I really think first
nammed are misunderstood me when I say
the American Constitution is godless I
mean I was quoting charge of a famous
study of a professor Israel kramnik what
I mean by that is to say the US
Constitution only mentions religion and
God in its preambles when it means to
say the ways in which they must be kept
out of the public square
that's happens to be fact about our
constitution and the reason why we still
have it otherwise the Republic would
have been destroyed long before and that
it's First Amendment says that religion
can be no business of the government a
statement name was in society could
begin to make thank but once again once
again you can just refer to the
Constitution and you will have Muslims
just referring to text and avoiding the
practical consequences and sometimes the
policies that are promoted in in one
country and remember that the previous
president george w bush was talking when
going not for the same reasons as you
are not from the same source because you
were supporting the war in iraq but he
was doing it in the name of god
so the constitution here is not
preventing someone from within to speak
in the name of god even if he is voting
exactly the same thing that in the name
of the peace that you are promoting well
therefore the war in iraq I mean I can't
imagine you're going to defend President
Bush well from from that charge I can no
one was ever summoned to vote for the
war in Iraq in the name in the name of
God and the president's own church as
well as every other Christian Church
that I know of was opposed to war for
whatever little difference that might
make none to me
this I think this one is for Professor
Ramadan why are there no progressive
Muslim majority quest countries with
rights for women and homosexuals etc I'm
no that I think that once again if you
look at the Muslim majority countries we
cannot just have something which is a
monolithic vision of what is happening
what is happening now in Muslim majority
countries is really before just looking
at some dimensions of you know the
rights of women within or the rights of
for homosexuals for example is really to
look at the situation in the whole
society and the way it's progressing now
we have the great majority of the Arab
countries they are under dictatorships
there is no freedom religious or secular
society this is the same for all so if
you look at this and you are expecting
from within an evolution in this society
forget about it look now at what is
happening in Turkey turkey is changing
moving towards something which is a more
democratic system and you see within
that our rights and discussion and
critical discussion that are possible so
I would say that you cannot essentialize
history and say the Muslims cannot do
this it's evolving and it's changing and
it depends where you can have this kind
of discussion and the first because they
are priorities the first is really to go
towards democratization and transparency
in the Muslim majority countries and if
you go to Indonesia even though we are
far from a perfect system you have much
more discussion in Indonesia today about
the principles the critical reading of
the text then you have in in you know
Arab countries so I would say it's
evolving there is no status quo and now
what is also interesting is look at what
the Western Muslims living in the market
X system when they can express
themselves when they are enjoying
freedom and they are not under the
political pressure what they are
producing as
the islamic contemporary thought it's
moving we are talking about citizenship
we are promoting women's rights we are
promoting the rights of the people to
leave and to be respected without
discrimination so look at the different
historical setting and you can see that
it's moving and it's changing and there
are new answers for new challenges
coming from Muslims now you think turkey
is moving in a progressive direction as
it becomes more Islamist is that what
you're saying that that's quite
interesting the way you translate what I
say it seems much more about what you
think that what I said but my let me
feel so there was no longer progressive
attraction no what I said is that even
the people who are now leading the
country that they are referring to Islam
and they were perceived as Islamist now
we don't know how to call them are they
Islamist or are they moderate Muslims or
are they ex Islamists the point is that
no one here can deny the fact that not
only the government because we can be
and we should be critical towards the
government but the people around and the
intellectuals in Turkey and within the
even the party you have new thoughts and
they are coming with something that we
didn't see even in the Muslim majority
countries in the our countries
so speaking about the rule of law and
democracy and transparency separating
and and promoting what they are trying
to promote and to be in tune today with
the European principles and I would say
this is the only thing for me which is
important if for example a turkey is
abiding by the European rules they
should be able to integrate European
Union and not what we have now because
it's a Muslim majority country we don't
care about what they are trying to do so
don't reduce Turkey to levels there are
dynamics there are people who are
promoting things that are quite
interesting I went there many times and
I can tell you the women in Turkey the
Turkish women for all the trends not
only you know from the secular for the
Islamists everywhere they are promoting
a better understanding of Islam a better
acknowledging and resisting
discriminations and trying to work for
more autonomy and I would say this is
what I said and this is what I promote
well actually I agree with you that was
very ossified at a Turkish bureaucratic
intolerant system that to some extent
has been opened by the challenge from
mr. Orion's party but the reason why
turkey continues to be looked on askance
by so much of Europe is not because it's
the muslim-majority country it was a
Muslim majority country long before the
European Union was formed and no one no
one's just discovered that faith in most
history this movement it's because of
legal and political reasons one of them
is continued illegal occupation of the
Republic of Cyprus which is already a
member of the European Union and the
expulsion of a large proportion of its
population reduction of them to refugee
status odion's been worse on now than
his predecessors the other the second is
the refusal of Turks to admit that
they're not the only people living in
Anatolia that there's another nation
called the Kurds that lives there which
has language and and national rights
which have been negated on that actually
the the early on party's been slightly
better than some of the other tactics
and the third is the refute the
continuing campaign of falsification and
lying about the mask for the genocide of
the Armenian population a continuing
disgrace which are they on whichever is
later on just made as I'm spoken of in
the most thuggish possible term and a
quite a question from from Pittsburgh
here it is is there an acceptable
literature of interpretation of the
Koran similar to the Jewish oral torah
that makes sense
yes of course you know if you you you
you come back to the first the classical
Islamic tradition in what we call LuAnn
jurisprudence and ethics and you know we
have a huge classical tradition the
problem very often is that the Muslims
themselves they neglect and ignore their
own tradition but also the people who
are coming to Islam they are just driven
by headlines and it's they are
simplifying the real that the reality of
you know you can get a PhD in the States
or anywhere in the in the West without
having one notion of what is called
Islamic philosophy while the Islamic
philosophers of the Philosopher's
referring to Islam as much as my manners
and and and so many we only know of a
rise
because he is very close to us but the
fact that we refer only to him just
showing us how much we ignore about the
others
do you know that Descartes who came with
the rationality and out read himself
read the thesis of abu hamid al-ghazali
who was talking about doubt and doubt as
a sense of getting certitude and a
knowledge neglected not known I think
that the Islamic tradition is full of
that we have to reconcile ourselves with
our past in order to come with the
diversity of new visions for for the
future and I think that this is a
missing for all of us I would say that
this neglectful Ness towards history and
tradition is a problem within the Muslim
universe of reference as much as it is
for Christianity and Judaism and all the
other great philosophies and religions
we have a few questions here I don't
think we can avoid this tonight about
Sharia it's become a kind of a
assumption among many Americans now that
what Muslims are really after is the
imposition of Sharia in every society in
which they live even Muslim minority
trees and it's not a lot understood
about Sharia but what is known is that
crimes such as adultery blasphemy
apostasy and homosexuality are
punishable by the death penalty in to
westernize it seems like a whole legal
system that's a violation of human
rights so what is the intention with
Sharia especially for Muslims living in
the West is the idea that eventually we
get there and we all live under Sharia
law you know this is a first is a
legitimate question it's an important
question because many Muslims living not
only in the west by the way throughout
the world
you have Muslims they denied this they
say no no they don't understand Sharia
how they reduced Sharia to due to the
Penal Code and sometimes it happened but
Sharia is not the Penal Code and things
and still with this that it's not only
the Penal Code we really have a problem
with the understanding of Sharia by
Muslims and the way it has to be
understood in our time and once again
many interpretations here you have some
Muslims and you cannot deny this their
perception of Sharia it starts with the
punishment and then it goes towards
social justice because you punish you go
to and this is for me
once again problematic and I'm critical
of this but I cannot deny the fact that
you have a tiny minority of Muslim
scholars they think like that in Nigeria
in Saudi Arabia in Egypt everywhere you
have another understanding of Sharia
which is we start with social justice
and then the punishment is part of the
whole process and my position I wrote
many times on that for example in
Western Muslims in the future Islam the
understanding of Sharia is the way it
was faithfulness in which way we are
faithful to some of our principles so
it's not a closed system Mohammad Abdu
in the 19th century when he was study he
was under the British colonisation and
he was we don't want this colonization
we'd want them out of our country but
the parliamentarian system is the best
for us as Muslims it doesn't contradict
our system and he was of the opinion
that the democratic system is not
opposed to Islam so you have trans
saying this my position on this
is that Sharia is the wait what's
faithfulness is the way towards justice
is the wit words mutual respect and
living together so this is why for
example when I read the American
Constitution of any European
Constitution today and it is said all
the citizens men and women black or
white should be treated equally by law
this is my Sharia not going to change
this so the point for me it when the
principles are respected and the
principles of justice is something which
are not to system that are opposed
they are principles that are common that
we can live together so this is where
from an Islamic viewpoint from within
the Muslim communities in the West you
will see that the mainstream position
coming from all the Muslim organizations
in the West is we abide by the law of
the country we are loyal to our country
and we act as active and responsible
citizens within the country and the only
thing that we can say today is look at
the facts and the figures and not only
the perceptions because I was shocked
but what I got as an image I didn't
think that this could happen in the
States what we had with the community
center in New York by people saying
Islamization of America I saw this in
Europe I thought it was impossible to
have it here and then it came here
meaning that the people are scared they
are there is a great deal of mistrust
these people are silently colonizing us
so this is where the Muslims and this is
what your question is important should
come and say look we are American
citizens we abide by the law we respect
the Constitution we want to be treated
equally mutual respect and equal rights
no discrimination for any religion or no
religion at all this is the way it
should be and if you look at facts and
figures millions of Western Muslims
today are just abiding by the law and
they got the three L's that I am talking
about in the book is the first there by
by the law
the second they speak the language of
the country English as you speak English
or
German or British they speak the
language and they are loyal to the
country they want the best for the
country
this is what it means to be a Western
Muslims or western or Muslim Europeans
or Muslim American and I think that this
help the Muslims should also speak out
about what they want but they also need
to be heard when they say things like
this because I have been repeating this
for 25 years and after 125 years what I
get is a smart guy he has a double-talk
he say this but he means something else
so if someone is telling you always when
you say something that you have
something else in mind there is no
discussion this is once again the end of
the discussion because the point is that
there is no trust there is no potential
discussion and critical discussion and
by doing this let me tell you something
which is also important it's very
contradictive because at the end there
is no dialogue it's not possible to talk
because if you talk and say oh you are
if it's you talk in a good way it means
that you have bad intentions and if you
speak in a bad way or now we know your
intentions so what do you do what are
you going to do could we accept that as
a closing statement from you and let mr.
Hitchens make it good this we've gone
over that's why I think that's a fine
closing statement thank you
do I get the same question I don't mind
would you like to close with that um
I'll show you oh it really is
I find ok like somebody likes her
surprises um
well sherry are just means law I mean
all he would say Sharia law are making
an elementary mistaken of course it it's
not the case that every thief has their
hand lopped off in Muslim society or
every adulterer gets stoned and so on I
mean I'm perfectly sure that's not just
because it would diminish the labor
force so radically oh so to speak
disable it I think it's more because of
something I've claimed to notice else
work just the religion is man-made and
so there are enormous discrepancies in
how these things are promulgated and
also how they are enforced and the most
countries and societies come quite early
and easily to the conclusion that their
own religions are in one form or another
not not really practice appalled to say
I mean after all in in Saudi Arabia
woman can't even drive a car whereas in
Iran she can vote not for much but she
can as much as a man can let's say her
vote can be stolen and degraded as much
as her husband's or her brother
there's an internet there's an internet
variation I I don't know it I can't
shake what I was when I heard saw once
on the BBC from someone whose career in
London I followed in if you know him you
wouldn't like him got Anjem Choudary so
well very well known noise maker around
around London complaining about
secularism Judaism all this kind of
thing and he didn't roll with the law
three times and was interviewed on BBC
went on about how nothing would change
until the green flag of Islam was flying
over Downing Street in Buckingham Palace
and so forth
and was asked I thought quite mildly by
BBC interviewer said well if is the way
you feel about Sheree are about a total
Islamic rule wouldn't you feel happier
moving to a country where they already
had it and which is it mean a polite
question a rather cheap one I mean but
still I what didn't prepare me for the
answer which Audrey looked straight at
the guy and straight into camera said
what makes you think this is your
country I thought it's a very good
question now why do you feel I know I
think I know partly why feel what if it
is necessary to affirm that and of
course a Muslim will look should learn
the language should obey the laws should
observe observe the customs and so what
most immigrants don't feel like so as we
absolutely have to say that the answer I
suspect is that it's embarrassing to
notice that in places like as far apart
as Sweden and as Spain there are groups
of people who say their countries should
be part of the Caliphate and that that's
why they've come here and if it wasn't
for those people you wouldn't be in this
position so it seems to me that to be in
order to be consistent you should you
should fear them and dislike them find
them morally and intellectually
repulsive at least as much as if not
more than I do and I don't say that you
don't but I do think that that is that
is the urgent
priority on the lady's question about
where would be the best country to live
if you were a Muslim and wanting to be a
member of a sexual or gender minority or
I think she said a female or homosexual
so hard to confuse actually the easiest
the easiest place for you to live in
that case would probably be I was
thinking about it well professor
ominously would probably be this will be
my closing ceremony be either
bosnia-herzegovina or Kosovo culturally
culturally Muslim democratic open
societies in southern and bulk and
Europe that were saved from obliteration
by the power of the United States which
has never had a word of thanks for what
it did
and which remains a secular country with
a godless Constitution
that's a no that's a no time much
weakening which is the best best hope of
humanity thank you all right thank you
both I hope it's been enlightening
evening